---
layout: post
title: Roof Damp Overhaul
abbrlink: 1a6d67ae983e49fea5b5485398c2a262
tags:
  - damp_mould
categories:
  - Standard Clauses For Housing Act Use - HHSRS
  - 1 - Damp and Mould Growth
date: 1699191248000
updated: 1699224818187
---

**General Roof Overhaul-Incl Timbers**

Overhaul the entire roof slope. Remove all loose, slipped, broken, perished or weathered slates/tiles.

Inspect all timbers and repair or renew all defective members, including battens, as necessary using sound treated timbers of similar dimensions to the existing.

Inspect all associated fillets, soakers, flashings and roof gutters and repair, redress, or replace as necessary. For any flashings or fillets requiring renewal, Code 4 Lead is to be used.

Provide and fix with new or sound secondhand/ re-instate slates/tiles using non ferrous nails.

Leave slope(s) in sound and weatherproof condition upon completion.

Remove all loose, slipped, broken, perished or weathered slates/tiles.

Provide and fix new/ re-instate slates/tiles using non ferrous nails.

Leave in a sound and weatherproof condition upon completion.

Take off $slates/tiles to one side of **XXX** parapet gutter and set aside sound slates for re-use. Strip out existing gutter, provide and lay new gutter linings in the most appropriate Code of lead sheet laid on continuous layer of roofing felt, dress up wall face to form gutter of 150mm depth joined in length by welted joints laid flat in the direction of fall and to include fixing with nailed tingles. Re-fix$ slates/tiles and leave in a sound and watertight condition.

Strip off the $slates/tiles to the valleys of the front bay and front main roof slope. Examine and replace, if necessary, all rotten, bowed, split, broken or otherwise defective timber using sound, well-seasoned, impregnated timber of suitable dimensions. Provide and fix continuous layers of roofing felt, to the valleys and cover with Code 4 pre-formed lead valleys. Re-instate$ slates/ tiles and leave sound and watertight upon completion.

Strip off the $slates/tiles at the junction of the rear main wall and back addition. Examine and replace, if necessary, all rotten, bowed, split, broken or otherwise defective timber using sound, well-seasoned, impregnated timber of suitable dimensions. Provide and fix continuous layers of roofing felt, to the valleys and cover with Code 4 pre-formed lead valleys. Re-instate$ slates/ tiles and leave sound and watertight upon completion.
