---
layout: post
title: Window Sill Lintel
abbrlink: 2e3f4757eef64825b2b0a0a73c1c5b85
tags:
  - excess_cold
categories:
  - Standard Clauses For Housing Act Use - HHSRS
  - 2 - Excess Cold
date: 1699191080000
updated: 1699191080000
---

**Provide and fix new stone sill and new steel or reinforced concrete lintel.**

Provide and fit new **\$ timber** double-glazed timber windows to match as far as possible the current design, which will achieve FENSA certification/ meet current Building Regulations.

The windows to have:

openable part(s) of the window(s) to be capable of achieving a minimum of one twentieth of the floor area of the room its serves.

The windows are to incorporate trickle vents that comply with current Building Regulations.

Low level glazing in the windows that is wholly or partially within 800mm from floor level is in a critical location. Safety glass must be fitted in these locations.

Alternatively the windows must be permanently protected by guards which are 800mm from fall level and have gaps between the vertical bars less than 75mm. Guards with horizontal bars are not suitable.

Provide and fit suitable opening limiters to the lower sash of the double hung sash window to restrict the distance that the window can be opened to 100mm.

Regard must be had to security in the design of openings as well as the risk of collision when openable parts are opened with walkways or access areas.

Make good to all disturbed areas of brickwork and plaster and suitable point the window reveals and soffit to lintel.

A copy of the FENSA certification or Building Regulation certification shall be sent to the London Borough of Camden.

Narrative – This clause is for use INSIDE a Conservation Area - Where Security is NOT an issue e.g. NOT a ground floor or an accessible window:

Take out the sash window to the XXX. Fit in lieu thereof, a suitable single glazed sash window complete with sash cords and fasteners.

The total glazed area of the window or aggregation of all windows within the room is to be not less than 1/10th of the floor area of the room and be so constructed that a portion of the window equal in area to not less than 1/20th of the floor area of the room is openable.

The finished sashes and other parts of the windows should fit within sound frames to a clearance of no more than 3mm, and be fitted with rebated seals fitted to the underside of the bottom rail and between the mid rails. Ensure that proprietary beads are designed to reduce draughts.
