---
layout: post
title: Replace Wash Hand Basin
abbrlink: 9b8e7a75accc4cf2847e4db9c00711f3
tags:
  - personal_hygeine_sanitation_and_drainage
categories:
  - Standard Clauses For Housing Act Use - HHSRS
  - 17 - Personal Hygiene, Sanitation and Drainage
date: 1588238621000
updated: 1588238621000
---

**Replace wash hand basin**

Remove the **XXX** wash basin. Supply and position a new vitreous china or other suitable wash basin, complete with overflow and 32mm (1 1/4") chromium plated waste, two 15mm (1/2") taps and a 32mm plug complete with a suitable length of retaining chain. Supply and fit a 32mm waste trap to the waste fitting and properly connect to the waste pipe. Ensure both water feeds have maintenance valves incorporated so that taps can be maintained without the need to drain down the water supply.

Take out the waste trap and pipe to the **XXX** basin. Supply and fit a 32mm plastic trap, properly connected to a waste pipe and made to discharge above the water level and below the gully grid of an external waste gully complete with a 32mm clearing access and plug, where the waste emerges from the wall. Make good all disturbed surfaces and leave waste pipe properly supported.

Take out the trap to the **XXX** wash hand basin. Supply and fit a 32mm plastic waste trap properly connected to the existing waste pipe.

Take out waste pipe to the **XXX** wash hand basin. Supply and fit a 32mm plastic waste pipe including a 32mm clearing access and plug where the waste emerges from the wall and leave waste pipe properly supported.

Take out the loose and insecure **XXX** wash hand basin. Supply and fit suitable bearers set at a proper height. Refix the wash hand basin and leave properly connected to the waste trap and water supply.

Take out the *\$ cold water/ hot water tap* to the **XXX** wash hand basin. Supply and fit a suitable 15mm (1/2") tap properly connected to the water supply. Ensure both water feeds have maintenance valves incorporated so that taps can be maintained without the need to drain down the water supply.
