---
layout: post
title: Windows Casement Metal
abbrlink: aff4b1777ae04602af2aa6f78217c723
tags:
  - excess_cold
categories:
  - Standard Clauses For Housing Act Use - HHSRS
  - 2 - Excess Cold
date: 1699191115000
updated: 1699191115000
---

**Casement/Metal window**

Take out the casement window. Fit in lieu thereof a suitable single glazed window complete with hinges, stays and fasteners. The total area of the window or aggregation of all windows within the room is to be not less than 1/10th of the floor area of the room and be so constructed that a portion of the window equal in area to not less than 1/20th of the floor area of the room is openable.

Alternatively, provide and fix a double glazed window to comply with the current versions of BS 5713 and BS 6262. The units must have an inner pane of low-E glass with a gap between the panes of 12mm and 20mm and be fitted with trickle ventilation. All openings to be draught stripped, preferably with two separate strips. Metal frames must incorporate a thermal break.

Take out the defective **XXX** casement. Provide and fit new casements to match existing. Cut out and renew any other badly worn or rotten timbers to frame and cill. All openings to be draught stripped. Leave in sound working condition on completion.

Ease and adjust the **XXX** casement window and fittings. All openings to be draught stripped. Leave in proper working order on completion.

Overhaul the **XXX** casement window/s. Cut out and renew all rotten or badly worn timbers to the casement, frame and cill. Replace all defective fittings. Ease and adjust as necessary. All openings to be draught stripped, and leave in sound working order on completion.

**In conservation areas**:

Take out the defective metal/timber **XXX** casement window complete. Provide and fit new window to match original properly glazed and fitted with suitable catches. Leave in proper working order on completion.

**Outside conservation areas**.

Provide and fit new **\$ metal** double-glazed timber windows to match as far as possible the current design, which will achieve FENSA certification. The windows are to incorporate trickle vents that comply with current Building Regulations. The openable part of the window must be capable of achieving a minimum of one twentieth of the floor area of the room its serves, and if there is more than one window the combined openable areas must exceed one twentieth. Where the size of the openable part(s) of the window(s) is below one twentieth and is restricted by the available dimensions of the opening in which the window frame is housed, every effort shall be made to maximise the openable area available.

Metal frames must incorporate a thermal break.

Low level glazing in the windows that is wholly or partially within 800mm from floor level is in a critical location. Safety glass that complies with the current version of BS 6206 Class C or above/ BS EN 12600 must be fitted in these locations. The safety glazing should be permanently marked in accordance with the current version of BS 6206 etc. The markings should still be visible after the glass has been fitted and the beading and pointing has been completed.

Alternatively the windows must be permanently protected by guards which are 800mm from fall level and have gaps between the vertical bars less than 75mm. Guards with horizontal bars are not suitable.

Provide and fit suitable opening limiters to casements to restrict the distance that the window can be opened to 100mm.

Regard must be had to security in the design of openings as well as the risk of collision when openable parts are opened with walkways or access areas.

Make good to all disturbed areas of brickwork and plaster and suitable point the window reveals and soffit to lintel.

A copy of the FENSA certification or Building Regulation certification shall be sent to the London Borough of Camden.

The glazing units must have an inner pane of low-E glass with a gap between the panes of 12mm and 20mm and be fitted with trickle ventilation. All openings to be draught stripped, preferably with two separate strips. Metal frames must incorporate a thermal break.

Take out the **XXX** casement window. Fit in lieu thereof a suitable single glazed window complete with hinges, stays and fasteners. The total area of the window or aggregation of all windows within the room is to be not less than 1/10th of the floor area of the room and be so constructed that a portion of the window equal in area to not less than 1/20th of the floor area of the room is openable.

Alternatively, provide and fix a double glazed window to comply with the current versions of BS5713 and BS6262. The units must have an inner pane of low-E glass with a gap between the panes of 12mm and 20mm and be fitted with trickle ventilation. All openings to be draught stripped, preferably with two separate strips.

Overhaul the **XXX** metal window. Properly clean off all surface rust. Renew as necessary all badly rusted, warped or broken parts. Leave the window in sound working order on completion.

Renew the defective hinges to the **XXX** window and leave in proper working order on completion.

Renew the defective stay to the **XXX** window. All openings to be draught stripped. Leave in proper working order.

Renew the defective fasteners to the **XXX** window. All openings to be draught stripped. Leave in proper working order.

Take out the **XXX** opening casement window, ease and adjust and refit leaving to open and close freely and in a weatherproof condition. All openings to be draught stripped.

Overhaul the **XXX** opening casement window and properly repair or replace all loose, broken, missing or rotted woodwork of casement and frame including external timber cill as necessary; repair or replace all loose, broken or missing fittings such as hinges, stays and fasteners and leave window to open and close freely and in weatherproof condition. All openings to be draught stripped,

Overhaul the **XXX** casement windows and properly repair or replace all loose, broken, missing or rotted woodwork of casements and frames including external timber cills as necessary; repair or replace all loose, broken or missing fittings such as hinges, stays and fasteners and leave windows in sound weatherproof condition with the opening casement sashes left to open and close freely. All openings to be draught stripped.

Overhaul the **XXX** bay casement windows and properly repair or replace all loose, broken, missing or rotted woodwork of casements and frames including external timber cills as necessary; repair or replace all loose, broken or missing fittings such as hinges, stays and fasteners and leave windows to open and close freely and in a weatherproof condition. All openings to be draught stripped,

Overhaul the **XXX** metal casement windows and properly repair or renew all the rusted metalwork of casement. Renew or repair all broken or missing fasteners, stays and hinges; ease and adjust as necessary leaving to open and close freely and in a weatherproof condition. All openings to be draught stripped,

Remove existing hinges to **XXX** hung opening casement window. Cut new sinkings to suit, piece in redundant sinkings and rehang casement to open and close freely using hinges.

Re-hinge the **XXX** casement window, leaving same to open and close freely.
