---
layout: post
title: Window Timber Sash
abbrlink: cbb96a865dd9401c914253e4858facd2
tags:
  - excess_cold
categories:
  - Standard Clauses For Housing Act Use - HHSRS
  - 2 - Excess Cold
date: 1699191074000
updated: 1699191074000
---

**Timber sash window**

Take out the existing window sashes and frames, listed below and suitably dispose of:

X

X

X

X

Provide and fit new **\$ timber** double-glazed timber windows to match as far as possible the current design, which will achieve FENSA certification/ meet current Building Regulations.

The windows to have:

openable part(s) of the window(s) to be capable of achieving a minimum of one twentieth of the floor area of the room its serves.

The windows are to incorporate trickle vents that comply with current Building Regulations.

Low level glazing in the windows that is wholly or partially within 800mm from floor level is in a critical location. Safety glass must be fitted in these locations.

Alternatively the windows must be permanently protected by guards which are 800mm from fall level and have gaps between the vertical bars less than 75mm. Guards with horizontal bars are not suitable.

Provide and fit suitable opening limiters to the lower sash of the double hung sash window to restrict the distance that the window can be opened to 100mm.

Regard must be had to security in the design of openings as well as the risk of collision when openable parts are opened with walkways or access areas.

Make good to all disturbed areas of brickwork and plaster and suitable point the window reveals and soffit to lintel.

A copy of the FENSA certification or Building Regulation certification shall be sent to the London Borough of Camden.

*xxx For USE – Outside a Conservation Area - Where Security is NOT an issue e.g. NOT a ground floor or an accessible window:*
